RPA - Cons (or disadvantages)
First of all, not all tasks are ideal for RPA. The automation capabilities provided by RPA are
ideal for tasks that are repetitive, rules based, high volume, and that do not require human judgment.
RPA implementation is especially difficult with business processes that are non-standardized and require
frequent human intervention in order to execute.
Also, processes that do not have digital standardized inputs are not suitable to be automated with
today's RPA solutions.
An example would be when a customer sends their bank a letter, that is paper-based and unstructured.
The company would then receive, scan and reallocate this letter to the correct department for processing.
In this case, RPA will only work with a collection of other implemented technologies  such as OCR -
required to make it digital and structured.
This can become a costly hurdle before RPA can be applied,
so it's very important for companies to determine which of their processes are suitable for RPA so that
automation runs smoothly.
Non-optimal processes should not be automated.
Don't automate bad processes.
Processes need to be streamlined and mapped out to ensure automation can deliver the anticipated benefits.
Processes that are unstable or prone to change are not good candidates for RPA.
Any process change means updating of the RPA code. Bear in mind that changes like modified data field
mappings, change in email addresses, vendor upgrades to systems and applications can affect the robot
functionality and might need code maintenance.
There is still need for human intervention as robots don't respond well to exceptions. Humans will
still have to manage exceptions and deal with any scenarios that robots cannot handle.
And although I said that
robots are usually built and configured by the business side in the organization;
there is still need for IT involvement. Though RPA is marketed as a tool for business users to achieve
quick improvements, IT involvement is essential to ensure that support, disaster recovery and change
management procedures are followed.
This is particularly important because broader architecture and system changes can affect the operation
of robots.
Then there is the fact that RPA is not especially intelligent today.
It's not a cognitive computing solution.
It cannot learn from experience - yet. As a process evolve, for example through the introduction and
use of other technologies; robots may become redundant and require changes.
Here I would just like to add a side note that there are a lot of initiatives going on at most of the RPA
software vendors on including more cognitive technologies, like machine learning, in the software.
So this is a field where RPA is evolving very quickly.
OK, so another disadvantage of RPA is employee resistance and onboarding. Any changes to a
company implementation of a new technology can be stressful for employees as they might experience
shifts in their own responsibilities - or worse, they might lose their jobs to the machines.
Frequent communication from company leaders and executive sponsors to ensure employees are fully informed
about what is expected of them throughout the implementation process is essential to successful adoption
of RPA.
Fostering a culture of innovation within the company will only further accelerate this adoption.
There is a need to manage the RPA solution and Team; meaning that you need both people and competence
to be successful.
Although robots alone are not very expensive, having a Center of Excellence (CoE) and allocating resources
to manage the RPA solution is extremely important, and there are some initial investments needed to
be made to make this happen.
In a later lesson, we'll talk more about how to create an RPA Center of Excellence and what roles
and responsibilities that are needed.